Add page on c2pa approved watermarks and fingerprints (#192)
contentauth/opensource.contentauth.org: docs/soft-bindings.mdx

---
id: sb-algs
title: Watermarking and fingerprinting algorithms
hide_table_of_contents: true
---

> [_Durable Content Credentials_](https://contentauthenticity.org/blog/durable-content-credentials) is a concept that combines C2PA secure metadata, undetectable watermarks, and content fingerprinting to make content provenance more robust than using just one of these methods.

Reviewer: **Suggest expanded wording:**
[_Durable Content Credentials_](https://contentauthenticity.org/blog/durable-content-credentials) is a concept that combines C2PA secure metadata with either, or both of, invisible watermarking, and content fingerprinting to help content provenance information persist across content platforms.

C2PA metadata can be accidentally removed when the image is shared through platforms that do not yet support the standard. If a copy of that metadata is retained in a database, a watermark actively inserted into the content, or a fingerprint passively computed from the content, can be used to look up that information from the database. These two technologies may be combined for further robustness.  This is referred to as a [Durable Content Credential](https://contentauthenticity.org/blog/durable-content-credentials).

Reviewer: I think the currently committed wording is ok.  I agree with your point of accuracy that ‘Durable Content Credential’ as we originally introduced it does mean all three.  The use of the term in the community has broadened a bit to general manifest recovery.  I think the current text captures both in the sense that it names the technology pillars and states that combining them adds robustness, so in that sense it is clear enough.

Reviewer: That said there is a typo now ' persist across content platforms by also:'  doesn't scan.. should be maybe ' persist across content platforms through use of: '

---
id: sb-algs
title: Watermarking and fingerprinting algorithms
hide_table_of_contents: true
---

[_Durable Content Credentials_](https://contentauthenticity.org/blog/durable-content-credentials) is a concept that helps content provenance to persist across content platforms by also using one or both:

> - **Undetectable watermarks**, actively inserted into the content

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Invisible watermarks**, actively inserted into the content
```

Author: Made that change myself.

- **Content fingerprinting**, passively computed from the content.

> Platforms might remove C2PA metadata if they don't yet support the standard or if they use automated process to, for example, provide multiple resolutions of an image which they then serve over the Web. By storing a copy of the metadata in an online database, you can use a watermark or a fingerprint to find it again.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Platforms might remove C2PA Manifests if they are using software that does not yet support the standard. By storing a copy of the C2PA Manifest in an online database, you can use a watermark or a fingerprint to find it again.
```

Combining both watermark and fingerprints further improves the robustness of the provenance information.

In the C2PA specification, watermarks and content fingerprinting are known as [soft bindings](https://c2pa.org/specifications/specifications/2.1/specs/C2PA_Specification.html#_soft_bindings), which can be used to find digital content, even if the underlying bits differ. The C2PA specification requires that soft bindings be generated using one of the [algorithms](https://c2pa.org/specifications/specifications/2.1/specs/C2PA_Specification.html#_soft_binding_algorithm_list) approved by the C2PA Technical Working Group. The following table lists the algorithms from the [C2PA Soft Binding Algorithm List](https://github.com/c2pa-org/softbinding-algorithm-list).

> import JSONToTable from '@site/src/components/JSONToTable';

Reviewer 2: We should NOT be duplicating that list on the CAI site - just point folks to the list, as above.
